>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SATURDAY
NOVEMBER 2nd, FOLLOWIN
YESTERDAY'S SHOOTING IN LO
ANGELES, WE EXAMINE WHAT I
WILL TAKE TO SECURE THE NATION
AIRPORTS
>>> IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT
ASSUMING GENERIC DRUGS MEA
INEXPENSIVE, COULD COST YOU BI
TIME
>> THE GENTLEMAN LOOKED IT UP, A
PRICE OF AROUND $400 AFTER H
LOOKED IT UP
I SAID TO HIM, CAN'T BE.
YOU MUST BE LOOKING AT THE BRAND
NAME DRUG.
IT CAN'T BE THAT EXPENSIVE
>>> AND THE GLOBAL GENDER GAP.
WHERE THE U.S. RANKS
>> THE U.S. DOESN'T FARE VER
WELL COMPARED TO THE VERY RICH
COUNTRIES, AND IN SOME
COUNTRIES, MANY POORER COUNTRIES
DO BETTER THAN WE DO
>>> NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOU
WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH STUDIOS A
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK, HARI
SREENIVASAN.
>> GOOD EVENING, THANKS FO
JOINING US
NEW CANCELLATIONS AT LOS ANGELES
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT DAY AFTE
THE FATAL SHOOTING OF AN UNARMED
AIRPORT SECURITY OFFICER
SOME PASSENGERS WHO FLED THE
SCENE IN PANIC WERE ALLOWED TO
RETURN TO COLLECT BELONGINGS
TODAY.
AN FBI INVESTIGATION INTO TH
INCIDENT IS UNDER WAY.
THE ALLEGED SHOOTER WHO WA
WOUNDED IN AN EXCHANGE WIT
AUTHORITIES WAS IDENTIFIED AS
23-YEAR-OLD NEW JERSEY MAN
LIVING IN LOS ANGELES.
HOURS BEFORE THE INCIDENT HI
FAMILY SAID HE SENT A TEXT T
ONE OF HIS BROTHERS SUGGESTING
HE WAS SUICIDAL.
THE TSA OFFICER WAS IDENTIFIED
AT 39-YEAR-OLD HAS REGARD OH
HERNANDEZ.
A NEW WARNING ABOUT THE EFFECT
OF CLIMATE CHANGE.
A LEAGUE DRAVT OF THE UNITED
NATIONS REPORT WARNS THAT RISING
TEMPERATURE KOSS PRODUCE CRO
PRODUCTION LEADING TO HIGHER
FOOD PRICES.
SCIENTISTS SAY SENSITIVE TO HEAT
WAVES TO LEAD TO A DECREASE OF
FOOD BY UP TO 2% PER DECAD
WHILE THE DEMAND FOR FOOD IS
EXPECTED TO RISE BY 14% AS THE
GLOBAL POPULATION GROWS.
>>> FROM PAKISTAN TONIGHT, WOR
THE PAKISTANI LEAD HEAR BEEN
BURIED KILLED YESTERDAY.
MEHSUD WAS BELIEVED RESPONSIBL
FOR A SUICIDE BOMBING IN LAT
THE PAKISTANI GOVERNMENT
DENOUNCED THE DRONE ATTACK
SAYING IT WAS MEANT TO DERAI
PEACE TALK BETWEEN THE PAKISTANI
GOVERNMENT AND THE TALIBAN
THE TALIBAN VOWED REVENGE.
>>> FROM ASIA, REPORTS THA
HIGH-LEVEL RUSSIAN AND JAPANES
OFFICIALS AGREED TO STRENGTHEN
SECURITY TIES.
THE TWO COUNTRIES ARE PLANNING
ANTI-PIRACY EXERCISES.
THE AGREEMENTS INTERPRETED AS AN
EFFORT TO CURB CHINA'S GROWING
INFLUENCE IN THE REERCHEN.
JAPAN'S FOREIGN MINISTER OFFERED
ASSURANCES THAT THE UNITED
STATES REMAINS WHAT HE CALLE
THE CORNERSTONE OF JAPAN'S
FOREIGN POLICY
>>> IN THE MIDDLE EAST,
LEADING EGYPTIAN SATIRIST AN
TELEVISION SOVIET TO AMERICA'S
JON STEWART YANKED OFF THE AIR
YOUSAF MADE FUN OF THE LEADER.
A HUGE CAKE ADORNED WERE THE THE
IMAGE OF THE ARMY CHIEF.
>>> TUNISIA BARRED FROM TH
DAVIS CUP.
THE INTERNATIONAL TINS
FEDERATION IMPOSED THE
PUNISHMENT AFTER TUNISIAN PLAYER
WAS ORDERED NOT TO PLAY AGAINS
ANOTHER PLAYER
THERE IS NO ROOM FOR PREJUDICE
IN THE SPORT
>>> AND DESIGNATED NEWBORN T
EITHER MALE OR FEMALE.
THAT SECTION OF THE BIRT
CERTIFICATE CAN BE LEFT BLANK.
THE IDEA, DECIDE WHAT TO DOP I
THE CHILD IS BORN WITH BOTH MALE
AND FEMALE SEX CHARACTERISTICS
ESTIMATES SAY THAT OCCURS IN A
MANY AS 1 IN 2,000 BIRTHS.
M FOR MALE, F FOR FEMALE OR X,
FOR THOSE CALLING THEMSELVES
INTERSEX
>>> AND NOW BACK TO THAT ATTAC
AT L.A.X. YESTERDAY.
FOR MORE ABOUT ITS POSSIBL
REPURCHASE CUSHIONS JOINED FRO
WASHINGTON BY RAFI RHAN,
SECURITY EXPERT AND THE FORMER
DIRECTOR OF SECURITY A BENGHAZ
IN TEL AVIV.
THE FIRST THING MOST OF ASKING
THIS MORNING, WHAT DID WE MISS
HOW COULD WE HAVE STOPPED THIS
>> WELL, I THINK THAT FOR TH
LAST 12 YEARS WE HAVE FOCUSE
TREMENDOUSLY ON THE SECURITY O
THE AIRCRAFT OR THE FLIGHT AND
WE PAID RELATIVELY LITTL
ATTENTION TO THE SECURITY OF THE
AIRPORT FACILITY
WE OBVIOUSLY, WE SEEM TO HAV
FORGOTTEN ABOUT SOME OF TH
EXPERIENCE THAT THE EUROPEAN
AIRPORTS HAVE SUFFERED WAY BAC
AT THE PEAK OF ATTACKS AGAINST
AVIATION IN EUROPE, WAY BACK I
THE '70s AND '80s, WHERE MOST OF
THE MAJOR AIRPORTS IN EUROPE
INCLUDING PARIS, MUNICH, ZURIC
AND OTHERS, WHERE THEY ATTACKE
ON THE GROUND LEAVING MANY
CASUALTIES BEHIND.
>> MANY ARE CONSIDERING ARMS THE
TSA.
GOOD IDEA?
BAD IDEA
>> NO.
I THINK IT'S A BAD IDEA,
ACTUALLY
WE NEED TO KEEP IN MIND WE'R
LOOKING AT ABOUT OVER 50,000
SCREENERS THAT WERE NOT SELECTED
ON THE BASIS OF THEIR ABILITY TO
CARRY A WEAPON, AND IF A WEAPO
WOULD HAVE TO BE USED, IT WOUL
HAVE TO BE USED UNDER VERY
EXTREME CONDITIONS, IN A
EXTREMELY CROWDED AREA, WHER
THE CARRYING THE WEAPON -- THE
WEAPON USER COULD CAUSE MORE
DAMAGE SOMETIMES THAN HELP, AN
THAT REQUIRES BASI
PREREQUISITES AND GOOD TRAININ
AND A DEDICATED PERSON TO BE
ABLE TO DO THAT.
SO THE IDEA OF NOW TRYING TO
CHANGE THE NATURE OF TSA
SCREENERS FROM PEOPLE THAT WATCH
FOR BEHAVIOR AND WATCH SCREENS
TO PEOPLE THAT ARE USING WEAPONS
IN FIGHTING THE TERRORISTS O
THE OTHER PEOPLE THAT ARE USIN
THE WEAPON, IS NOT A GOOD IDEA
>> ALL RIGHT
SO SHOULD WE POSSIBLY MOVE THE
SCREENING PROCESS OUTSIDE TH
AIRPORT?
YOU'VE HAD EXPERIENCE IN ISRAEL.
THEY CHECK EVERY CAR
I KNOW IT WOULD BE INCONVENIENT,
BUT IS THAT A SOLUTION
>> WELL, OF COURSE, IT I
INCONVENIENT, AND I DON'T THIN
THAT THE ISRAELI MODE IS RIGHT
FOR THE AMERICAN
I DON'T THINK THE THREAT I
SIMILAR TO THE ONE IN ISRAEL AND
REQUIRES THE SAME, THE I WOULD
SAY FAR-REACHING SOLUTIONS
BUT, AT THE SAME TIME, WE CANNOT
NEGLECT ALL THIS AREA.
THE PUBLIC AREA OF THE AIRPORT
WHETHER IT IS ON THE CURB SIDE
AND THE PUBLIC LOBBIES, AND TH
PUBLIC SIDE OF THE CHECKPOINT,
BECAUSE THIS IS THE AREA WHERE
THINGS CAN HAPPEN, AND IT'
HAPPENING QUITE A FEW AIRPORTS
LATELY, JUST TO REMIND YOU THA
A COUPLE OF YEARS AGO, SUICIDE
TERRORISTS WALKED INTO MOSCO
AIRPORT AND BLEW HIMSELF U
KILLING A LARGE NUMBER O
PEOPLE
THE AMERICAN MILITARY PERSONAL
PERSONNEL SHOT AN THE FRANKFOR
AIRPORT ON THE CURB SIDE
IT HAPPENS FREQUENTLY AND WE
NEED TO PREPARE FOR THIS
>> RAFI, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU
>> JOINING US FROM WASHINGTON.
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT "IN-DEPTH" REPORTS FRO
AROUND THE NATION AND AROUND THE
WORLD.
GENETIC DRUGS ACCOUNT FOR SOME
80% OF ALL PRESCRIPTION IL
IFALED IN THE UNITED STATES.
THAT SAVES CONSUMERS AND THE
HEALTH CARE SYSTEM BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS A YEAR
BUT FOR THOSE WHO WERE UNINSURED
OR WHO HAVE POOR DRUG COVERAGE
IT TURNS OUT GENETIC DOES NO
ALWAYS MEAN INEXPENSIVE.
RETAIL PRICES FOR SOME GENERIC
CAN VARY WILDLY, FROM ON
PHARMACY TO THE NEXT
IT'S A STORY THAT FO
CORRESPONDENT MEGAN THOMPSON I
VERY PERSONAL.
>> Reporter: CAROL THOMPSON IN
MINNESOTA WAS DIAGNOSED WITH
BREAST CANCER IN 2009.
FOR PART OF THE YEAR, SHE PAID
MORE THAN $400 A MONTH OUT O
POCKET FOR HER BRAND NAME DRUG
BECAUSE OF HER INSURANCE PLAN'
HIGH DETECTABLE.
A COUPLE YEARS LATER, AFTER TH
DRUG CALLED LETROZOL WEN
GENETIC, THE PRICE DROPPED
DRAMATICALLY, TO AROUND $10 AT
HER LOCAL COSTCO
ALWAYS LOOKING FOR A BETTER DEAL
SHE DECIDED TO ASK ANOTHER BIG
CHAIN ABOUT ITS RETAIL PRICE
>> THE GENTLEMAN LOOKED IT U
AND HE CAME BACK TO ME WITH
PRICE OF AROUND $400
AND I SAID TO HIM, OH, CAN'T BE.
YOU MUST BE LOOKING AT THE BRAND
NAME DRUG.
IT CAN'T BE THAT EXPENSIVE
>> Reporter: BUT THERE WAS N
MISTAKE.
ONE STORE QUOTE ADD PRICE 40
TIMES MORE THAN THE OTHER.
HOW COULD THAT BE?
ESPECIALLY WHEN GENERIC DRUG
ARE THOUGHT TO BE MORE
INEXPENSIVE.
>> I WAS SHOCKED
CONFUSED
WHAT AM I MISSING?
THIS ISN'T COMPUTE
>> Reporter: SHE NEVER BEEN AN
ACTIVIST FELL COMPELLED TO TRY
TO FIGURE THIS OUT
>> I STARTED AND MY OWN TO PHONE
OTHER PHARMACIES IN THE TWIN
CITIES HERE.
>> Reporter: LAST JUNE, SHE MADE
ANOTHER ROUND OF CALLS LIKE SH
DID MORE THAN A YEAR PRIOR
AND WHAT SHE FOUND WAS THA
NOTHING HAD CHANGED.
WILDLY VARYING PRICES FOR HE
GENERIC BREAST CANCER DRUG
>> HI.
I'M LIKE TO FIND OUT WHAT TH
RETRAIL PRICE IS FOR THE 30-DA
SUPPLY OF THE GENETIC DRUG
CALLED LETROZOL.
>> $11.45.
>> $29.88.
>> $364.99
>> OOH
I DIDN'T REALIZE IT WAS THAT
MUCH
$435
>> $455.
>> IT DIDN'T SEEM FAIR AND I
SEEMS TO ME ESPECIALLY
EGREGIOUS, WHEN IT INVOLVED
LIFE-SAVING CANCER DRUG.
IT JUST UPSET ME
>> Reporter: HER DISCOVERY
WASN'T JUST ALARMING FOR HER
IT WAS VERY PERSONAL FOR ME.
BECAUSE CAROL THOMPSON IS MY
MOM.
WE USED HER STORY, BECAUSE WHA
WE THOUGHT MIGHT JUST BE A FLUKE
TURNED OUT TO BE PART OF A MUC
LARGER PROBLEM THAT FEW AR
AWARE OF
RETAIL PRICES NOT JUST FOR M
MAUGHMER DRUG BUT MANY GENERICS,
TOO.
>> WHAT WE FOUND WAS ABSOLUT
LIT SHOCKING
>> THE ED TR FOR PRESCRIPTIO
DRUG COVERAGE AT "CONSUMER
REPORTS" LAST SPRING LED A
SURVEY OF MORE THAN 20
PHARMACIES AROUND THE COUNTR
ASKING RETAIL PRICE OF
BLOCKBUSTER DRUGS THAT HAD
RECENTLY GONE GENERIC.
THE COURT OF A MONTH OF PLAVIX
RANGED FROM $15 AT COSTCO AN
$12 AT AN ONLINE STORE TO UP T
10 TO 15 TIMES HIGHER AT CVS
PRICES RANGED FROMS 15DS TO $1
UNTO NINE TIMES MORE AT TH
OTHER NATIONAL CHAINS.
>> UNPRECEDENTED FOR US'S WE HAD
NEVER FOUND THIS KIND OF
VARIATION IN A DRUG PRICIN
STUDY BEFORE
>> Reporter: SHE SAYS WHILE MANY
STORES OFFER OLDER, MORE COMMO
GENETIC DRUGS FOR A FEW DOLLARS,
IT'S THE PRICES FOR NEWE
GENETICS THAT VARY SO MUCH, AN
THEY DISCOVERED SOMETHING ELSE
IN THEIR SURVEY THAT SURPRISED
THEM
>> YOU ACTUALLY CAN'T GET TH
LOWEST PRICE UNTIL YOU ASK
>> CAN YOU DO ANY BETTER ON TH
PROO IS?
>> YEAH.
WE CERTAINLY DO PRICE MATCHES.
>> Reporter: INDEED, AFTER M
MOM TRIED THAT STRATEGY, TARGET,
WHICH HAD ONE OF THE HIGHEST
PRICES OF $455, SAID IT WOUL
MATCH THE PRICE AT OTHER
PHARMACIES
>> WE WOULD JUST NEED THE OTHE
PHARMACY'S INFORMATION SO WE CAN
CONTACT THEM TO VERIFY THE
PRICE.
>> OKAY.
GOOD
>> Reporter: AND REMEMBER,
OTHERS QUOTED THE DRUG FOR A
LITTLE AS $11.
>> SO YOU'RE SAYING CUSTOMER
ESSENTIALLY HAVE TO WALK INTO
PHARMACY AND BARTER WITH THEIR
PHARMACIST
>> RIGHT
WORSE THAN BUYING A CAR.
AT LEAST THERE'S A STICKER O
THE WINDOW WHERE YOU KNO
THERE'S A PRICE YOU'RE GOING T
TRY TO WORK DOWN FROM.
IN THIS CASE, YOU DON'T HAVE
ANYTHING
>> Reporter: SHE SAYS IT'S RAR
FOR SOMEONE TO THINK OF CALLIN
AROUND LIKE MY MOM DID
SINCE MOST CONSUMERS HAD NO IDEA
PRICES CAN VARY SO MUCH.
THAT CAN LEAD TO THE UNINSURED
OVERPAYING BY HUNDREDS O
DOLLARS OR SKIPPING MEDICATION
ALTOGETHER
>> AND SHE TOLD ME THE PRICE
I WAS LIKE, I CAN'T GET IT
YOU KNOW
PUT IT BACK ON THE SHELF
>> Reporter: IN 2008, LISA
DUNCAN MOVED FROM INDIANA, HOM
TO MINNESOTA, TO BE NEAR HER
AGING FATHER, BUT SHE HAD NO JOB
AND NO INSURANCE TO PAY FOR TH
INSURANCE TO TREAT HER BIPOLAR
DISORDER
SHE'D ATTEMPTED SUICIDE TWIC
BEFORE DOCTORS IN INDIANA FOUN
THE RIGHT MIX OF MEDICATIONS T
STABILIZE HER.
SHE HAD PAID A LOW INSURANCE
CO-PAY FOR ONE OF HER GENERICS
CALLED LAMOTRAGENE, BUT NOW HE
LOCAL BIG NAME CHAIN I
MINNESOTA QUOTEED HER AN OUT O
POCKET PRICE OF MORE THAN $100
FOR A MONTH'S SUPPLY PAP PRICE A
SINGLE MOTHER OF FOUR COULD NO
AFFORD
>> VERY SCARY.
I THOUGHT I DON'T WANT TO GO
BACK TO THE WAY I WAS, BUT I
CAN'T AFFORD IT.
I DON'T HAVE THE MONEY
YOU KNOW
REGARD FARM 1I69 AS A COMMUNIT
CLINIC FOR LOW-INCOME PATIENTS
IN MINNEAPOLIS SUGGESTED SHE TRY
COSTCO
DUNCAN SAID IT QUOTED HER
PRICE OF AROUND $15 FOR THE ON
MONTH SUPPLY
>> ARE YOU LOOKING AT THE RIGH
MEDICATION
BECAUSE THAT'S JUST, SOUNDED OFF
THE WALL
AND SHE SAID, OH, YEAH
YOU KNOW
>> PHONE CALLS FOR PRICING AND
THE SAME PERSON WILL CALL BACK
WITHIN MINUTES THINKING THAT
THERE'S BEEN AN ERROR.
IN THE PRICING, BECAUSE THEY'V
BEEN QUOTED SUCH HIGH PRICES
ELSEWHERE.
>> Reporter: JESSE IS
PHARMACIST AT COSTCO
IT TURNS OUT THE LOW-COST CHAI
ALLOWS NON-MEMBERS TO USE IT
PHARMACIES, WHICH CONSISTENTLY
HAVE THE LOWEST PRICES O
GENERIC DRUGS.
HE SAYS UNLIKE OTHER CHAIN
COSTCO PRICES DRUGS ADDING A
SMALL MARKUP TO THE WHOLESAL
PRICE IT PAYS LIKE EVERY OTHER
PRODUCT ON ITS SHELVES
HE'S WORKED AT OTHER CHAIN
WHICH HE SAYS TAKE A DIFFERENT
APPROACH
>> A LOT OF TIMES WHAT OTHER
CHAINS WILL DO, TAKE A PRICE FOR
THE BRAND MEDICATION AND JUS
DECREASE THAT BY A CERTAIN
PERCENTAGE AND GIVE THAT A
THEIR PRICE FOR THE GENERIC.
>> Reporter: COSTCO WOULDN'T
TELL US THE WHOLESALE PRICE IT
PAID FOR MY MOM'S CANCER DRUG.
>> WHEN WOULD YOU NEED THOSE
>> Reporter: ANOTHER PHARMACIS
TOLD US WHAT HE PAID
THIS MAN OWNS SNYDER DRUGS ONE
OF A FEW SMALL INDEPENDENTLY
OWNED FARM SIS LEFT IN THE TWI
CITIES
THOSE SMALLER INDEPENDENCE ALL
QUOTED MY MOM SOME OF THE LOWEST
PRICES FOR HER BREAST CANCER
GENETIC.
SOMETHING THAT SURPRISES HER
>> NO INTUITIVE, REALLY, THAT
CORNER DRUG STORE, AND
INDEPENDENT, SMALL INDEPENDENT
RETAILER, WOULD HAVE SOME OF THE
BEST PRICES.
>> Reporter: AT MANY LARGE
CHAINS, PRICES ARE SET AT TH
CORPORATE LEVEL, ACCORDING T
REPRESENTATIVES WE SPOKE TO.
>> $14
>> Reporter: BUT HE DECIDES ON
HIS OWN WHAT TO CHARGE
$14 FOR MY MOM'S DRUG.
HE JUST ADDS A SMALL MARKUP TO
THE WHOLESALE PRICE HE CAN BUY
IT FOR, ANYWHERE FROM AROUND $
TO $28
>> ALSO MY PRICING IS BASED ON
THE PERSON I'M TALKING TO,
BECAUSE IF THEY NEED SOMETHING
THIS IS MY RESPONSIBILITY TO
PROVIDE THAT TO THEM
I'M NOT LOSING ANY MONEY
>> Reporter: HE GUESSES THAT BIG
CHAINS, WHICH BUY IN LARGE
VOLUME, CAN PROBABLY GET EVE
BETTER WHOLESALE PRICES THAN H
CAN AND HE BRISTLES WHEN H
HEARS SOME QUOTED MY MOM A PRICE
MORE THAN $400 WHN HE'S CHARGING
JUST $14
>> HOW COULD YOU JUSTIFY THAT?
IF YOU ARE IN MORE RATE, YOU
DON'T NEED TO MAKE MONEY LIK
THAT
WE HAVE TO ASK, WHAT IT'
HAPPENING?
THIS IS THE MORE'S COMPASS
>> Reporter: WE ASKED TH
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CHAI
DRUG STORES FOR AN INTERVIEW BUT
THE GROUP DECLINED SAYING IT
COULDN'T COMMENT ON THE PRICIN
PRACTICES OF ITS MEMBERS
BUT IN A STATEMENT E-MAILED TO
THE "NEWSHOUR," THE GROUP SAID
INSTANCES OF CUSTOMERS PAYIN
THE FULL RETAIL PRICE FOR A DRUG
U.S. YAOING NO INSURANCE
ACCOUNTS FOR ONLY 8.5% O
PRESCRIPTIONS DISPENSED BY
PHARMACIES NATIONWIDE.
AND THERE ARE MANY FACTORS
INVOLVED IN PRODUCT PRICING.
COSTS OF THE EXACT TIME WHEN THE
DRUGS WERE PURCHASED FROM TH
SUPPLIER
THE LAWS OF SUPPLY AND DEMAN
AND SOME OF THE COMPONENTS THA
DETERMINE DRUG PRICES.
WE ALSO ASKED TARGET WHY I
WOULD CHARGE $455 FOR MY MOM'S
CANCER DRUG.
IF IT WOULD APPARENTLY B
WILLING TO MATCH THE MUCH LOWE
PRICE OF $11
IN AN E-MAILED STATEMENT, TARGET
DIDN'T ANSWER THE QUESTION
DIRECTLY
ONLY SAYING FACTORS THAT IMPAC
PRICES INCLUDE, A GUES
INSURANCE PLAN, PRICE CHANGE
FROM MANUFACTURERS AND THE GUEST
DEDUCTIBLE'S IN RESPONSE TO TH
"CONSUMER REPORTS" SURVEY LAST
SPRING, CVS SAID IN A STATEMENT,
RANDOM PRICE CHECK OF ONLY FIV
DRUGS IS TOO SMALL TO DRAW
MEANINGFUL CONCLUSIONS ABOUT
WHEN PHARMACIES OFFER THE BEST
OVERALL VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS.
SO IF THE FACE OF ALL THIS, HO
CAN CONSUMERS FIND THE BES
PRICES FOR GENERIC DRUPGS?
NO FEDERAL AGENCY KEEPS TRACK OF
ALL THE RETAIL PRICES AND STAT
RESOURCES ARE LIMITED.
SO OTHERS STEPPED IN
NEW WEBSITES TO HELP CONSUMERS
COMPARE DRUG PRICES LAUNCHED
INCLUDING GOOD RX, FOE
COUNSELEDED BY DOUG HIRSCH
HE CAME UP WITH HIS OWN PLAN
AFTER HE FOUND WILDLY DIFFEREN
PRICES FOR HIS GENERIC DRUG.
>> THIS IS INEFFICIENT
I JEWS ORBITZ FOR LOOKING AT
ALLIANZ.
WHY IS IT SO DIFFICULT TO KNOW
THE COST OF THEIR PRESCRIPTION
DRUG
>> Reporter: THEY AGGREGAT
BILLIONS FROM PHARMACIES ACROS
THE UNITED STATES AND MATCHE
THEM WITH DISCOUNTS, COUPONS
KLUGS AND OTHER PLANS THAT
HIRSCH SAYS MANY CONSUMERS DON'T
KNOW ABOUT
>> THERE ARE ALL SORTS O
DIFFERENT DISCOUNTS.
THIS IS AN ONLINE PHARMACY
THIS IS A COUPON PRICE AT KMART.
>> Reporter: IT LAUNCHED LAS
YEAR AND INFORMATION IN DEMAND
HE SAYS THE WEBSITE GETS ALMOS
A MILLION VISITS A MONTH
IT'S THE TYPE OF INFORMATION M
MOM, WHO TODAY HAS MEDICARE AN
LOW DEDUCTIBLE FOR PRESCRIPTIONS
HOPES PEOPLE WILL PAY ATTENTIO
TO
>> I WOULD SAY, LET THE BUYE
BEWARE
SHOP AROUND.
BE THOROUGH.
DO YOUR HOMEWORK
>>> SEE HOW MUCH THE PRICE OF
GENERIC DRUG CAN VARY IN JUS
ONE CITY
VISIT "NEWSHOUR."CBS.ORG
>>> THE WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM
PUBLISHED A REPORT RECENTLY THAT
SAID THE UNITED STATES FINISHE
FAR FROM THE TOP OF THE LIST
WHEN IT COMES TO GENDE
EQUALITY
ACCORDING TO THE REPORT, WOMEN
FARED BEST IN ICELAND, FINLAND
NORWAY AND SWEDEN.
AMERICAN WOMEN FINISHED 23rd O
LIST OF 136 COUNTRIES.
FOR MORE PERSPECTIVE, EARLIER
SPOKE WITH KATHLEEN GERSON,
SOCIOLOGY PROFESSOR AT NEW YOR
UNIVERSITY AND THE AUTHOR OF A
BOOK ABOUT GENDER AND FAMILY
TITLED "THE UNFINISHED
REVOLUTION."
SO WHAT IS IT ABOUT TH
SCANDINAVIAN MODEL
WHENNY A RATTLED OFF LIST OF TOP
FOUR, ICELAND, FINLAND, NORWAY
SWEDEN, WHAT'S WORKING THERE
WHAT CAN WE LEARN?
>> A THINK THE NORDIC MOLD, AS
IT'S CALLED, FIGURED OUT THERE
ARE TWO IMPORTANT INGREDIENTS TO
CREATING GENDER EQUALITY
WHICH, BY THE WAY, ACTUALL
PRODUCES GREATER ECONOMI
STABILITY AND GREATER OVERAL
SOCIAL HEALTH.
AND THOSE TWO INGREDIENTS ARE ON
THE ONE HAND NOTIONS OF EQUA
OPPORTUNITY AND THE ECONOMY, AND
AT WORK, AND WHICH AMERICANS
WOULD FIND VERY LITTLE FAULT
WITH
BUT THE OTHER SIDE OF THAT
EQUATION IS, THEY'VE ALS
SUPPORTED NOTIONS OF FAMIL
SUPPORT POLICIES
THAT THEY WANT ALL THEIR
FAMILIES TO BE HEALTHY, TO B
ECONOMICALLY SECURE, AND TO HAVE
AS MANY EARNERS AS POSSIBLE AN
AS MANY CARETAKERS AS POSSIBLE
SO THAT MEANS, NOT ONLY THAT
THEY HAVE INCORPORATED WOMEN
INTO THE WORKFORCE, THEY'V
INCORPORATED MEN INTO THE HOME
THEY HAVE VERY STRONG POLICIES
THAT BRING MEN IN AS FATHERS
AND FINALLY, THEY'VE ACCEPTE
AND IN FACT, EMBRACED THE NOTION
THAT FAMILIES ARE PART OF LARGER
COMMUNITIES, AND GOOD CHILD CARE
MAKES IT POSSIBLE FOR WOMEN AN
MEN TO GAIN MORE EQUALITY IN
THEIR LIVES.
>> AND EDUCATIONAL ATTAINMENT,
WE ARE TIED FOR FIRST WITH ABOUT
24 OUR COUNTRIES
>> EXACTLY
>> BUT WHEN IT COMES TO HEALTH
AND SURVIVAL, THE SPECK MEASUR
OF HEALTHY LIFE EXPECTANCY
WE'RE 53rd
MUCH LOWER THAN ONE WOULD THIN
LIVING IN THE U.S.
>> VERY COUNTER INTUITIVE SINC
WE TALK ALL THE TIME ABOUT OUR
HIGH LIFE EXPECTANCY
ESPECIALLY FOR WOMEN
THE LESSON, WE ARE QUITE
OBVIOUSLY ONE OF THE FEW, TH
ONLY INDUSTRIAL WEALTHY COUNTR
IN THE WORLD THAT DOESN'T HAVE A
NATIONAL HEALTH SYSTEM, AND
THINK THAT IS SHOWING UP I
THESE STICKS NAP WE LIKE T
THINK OF OURSELVES AS BEING ON
OF THE HEALTHIEST COUNTRIES ON
PUT IT ALL TOGETHER, PEOPLE AT
THE TOP MAY BE DOING WELL, BUT
WE'RE NOT AS A COUNTRY DOING
THAT WELL COMPARED TO OTHE
SOCIETIES.
>> ANOTHER ONE OF THE CATEGORIES
THAT MEASURE IS ECONOMIC
PARTICIPATION AND OPPORTUNITY.
WE RANKED SIXTH OVERALL WE W
HAVE LEADERSHIP POSITIONS FILLED
BY WOMEN, BUT RANKED 67th WHEN
IT CAME TO FWHACH EQUALITY
THAT'S A CONVERSATION THAT'S
BEEN HAPPENING IN THE U.S. FOR A
LONG TIME.
>> AND THERE WAS A MOMENT IN
TIME WHEN WE FOCUSED O
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION, GETTIN
WOMEN INTO THE WORKPLACE, BUT WE
DIDN'T FOCUS AS MUCH ON WHAT
HAPPENED TO THEM ONCE THEY GOT
THERE.
SO, YES.
WE'VE HAD SOME EXAMPLES OF WOMEN
BREAKING THROUGH THE GLASS
CHEE
CEILING, BUT IN MANY TOP
PROFESSIONS, A RESEGREGATION
EVEN IN THOSE PROFESSIONS, MEN
TEND TO BE DOING BETTER THAN
WOMEN IN THE MORE HIGHLY PAI
POSITIONS.
>> ALL RIGHT
FROM NYU, THANKS SO MUCH
>> MY PLEASURE
>>> THIS IS "PBS NEWSHOU
WEEKEND" SATURDAY.
>>> FOR YEARS NOW YOU PROBABLY
THOUGHT YOU KNEW EXACTLY WHAT AS
ON YOUR DOG'S MIND LOOKING T
SEE IF IT WAS WAGGING ITS TAIL
NEW RESEARCH INDICATES THAT TELL
TALE SIGN IS A TALL TALE
THERE'S MUCH MORE TO IT.
FROM ITV, THE REPORT
>> Reporter: WE KNOW LULU'
HAPPY, HER TAIL IS WAGGING BUT
SHE'S LETTING MIKEY NO EASY SH
HAPPY BY WAGGING HER TAIL TO THE
RIGHT.
AT WAG TO THE LEFT SIGNIFIES
ANXIETY.
NEW RESEARCH INDICATES WAGGING
REFLECTS WHAT IS HAPPENING I
THE DOG'S BRAIN.
THAT STUDY INVOLVED USING
VIDEO OF A DOG WITH AN OBVIOUS
WAG TO THE RIGHT AND TO TH
LEFT
THE ANIMAL WAS SILHOUETTED, AS
43 OTHER DOGS WERE SHOWN THE
VIDEO.
THEIR HEART RATES MONTED
MONITORED.
WHEN WAGGED TO THE RIGHT
VIEWING DOG RELAXED.
WHEN THE DOG WENT TO HIS LEFT,
THE WATCHING CANINE'S HEART RATE
INCREASED, HAIR ON END AND H
WAS STRESSED
>> THIS RESEARCH IS SOMETHING OF
A BREAKTHROUGH, BECAUSE IT TELLS
US A LOT MORE ABOUT HOW DOGS
COMMUNICATE WITH ONE ANOTHER
MOST OF THE PREVIOUS RESEARC
HAS BEEN ON HOW DOGS COMMUNICATE
WITH US AND HOW MUCH OF OUR BODY
LANGUAGE DOGS UNDERSTAND
BUT WE'RE NOW SEEING A LOT MOR
INTERESTING, HOW DOGS READ ONE
ANOTHER'S BODY LANGUAGE.
>> Reporter: AT THE DOG HOME
TODAY, THE RESEARCH WAS WELCOMED
BY THOSE TRAINING THE ANIMALS TO
BETTER INTERACT WITH EACH OTHER.
>> TAKING INTO ACCOUNT ALL THE
DOGS BODY LANGUAGE ASSESSING
THEM AND LOOKS AT THEM
I NEVER CONSIDERED IT TO BE THAT
DETAILED
THAT'S SOMETHING WE'RE
DEFINITELY GOING TO USE IN THE
FUTURE TO TRY TO FIGURE OU
WHAT'S GOING ON INSIDE THEIR
HEADS, REALLY.
>> Reporter: PET OWNERS WATCHING
THE WAGGING WITH EXTRA FREFT NOW
ON
FOR ITV NEWS
>>> JOIN US TOMORROW ON-AIR AN
ONLINE
WE REPORT FROM PENNSYLVANIA ON
AN UNUSUAL COALITION BETWEEN
ENVIRONMENTISTS AND ENERGY
COMPANIES.
>> THIS IDEA OF CREATING A
ENVIRONMENT WHERE YOU CAN HAVE A
RATIONAL CONVERSATION WITH
PEOPLE, AND LOOK AT THE FACTS,
THINK ABOUT HOW COLLECTIVELY W
CAN RAISE THE PERFORMANCE BAR.
>> AND JUST A REMINDER TO JOIN
US ON FACEBOOK WHERE THIS WEEK
WE'RE LOOKING FOR PICTURES O
STREET ART IN YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION O
"PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
THANK YOU.